Coming up on Self-Hosted 15, we help preppers get their toilet paper stockpiles in order.
We also battle valiantly the WebSockets demon of reverse proxies.
And I let you know why Chris has fear of missing out on HASS.io.
I'm Alex.
I'm Chris. And this is Self-Hosted 15.
So how many toilet paper rolls have you bought this week?
I got two orders from Amazon in, actually. But just because I was
afraid that the store would run out, not because I wanted to stockpile,
and I'm about to go on a road trip. You're such a hoarder.
I'm going to Denver and I don't want to run out halfway.
This is the thing, right? So I was recently buying some parts to flush the coolant on my truck,
and I had to buy six gallons of distilled water to do it. And the woman at the checkout looked
at me like I was some crazy zombie prepper man. I'm like, no, I'm just flushing the coolant on
my truck. I'm not trying to be a hoarder here. Yeah, what would you be using that for?
The thing is, is every time I'm leaving for a trip, I wish I had some sort of inventory
management system. And I got a sense from the audience this week that they were feeling the
same way, you know, whatever they might be prepping for.
Yeah, I mean, it's no secret at the moment, the world's going coronavirus mad. And I think it
makes sense to have some stocks of different sorts of provisions, you know, tins of beans, rice.
Batteries.
Yeah, all that kind of stuff, right? The issue with buying so much stuff at once,
though, is that it's really hard to keep track of when that stuff's gonna expire and go bad in your
cupboard. So I was browsing through the Home Assistant add-on store last night, and I saw
Grossi, which is spelled G-R-O-C-Y. And this thing allows you to manage inventory of food,
of batteries, of all sorts of stuff.
Yeah, it's an inventory management system specifically really for
groceries, but you could use it for other things like chores, like Alex said, batteries.
But in here, here's an example of cheese. There's three packs of cheese currently in the fridge.
They expire at X amount of time. And then the system even has a price history chart in here,
and basic information about what you have in the inventory. I could really see people
who like to track everything just super geeking out on this.
And you can then use those constituent ingredients you have in the cupboard,
in the fridge, whatever, as part of the meal plan and recipes function
that this software has as well. It's pretty cool.
Would you really find yourself, though, going in here, like when you eat a cookie,
go in here and remove one cookie from the inventory?
Hell no.
I think that's too granular for me, too. But I could see the equipment tracking being really
useful.
Well, for you, yeah. Who has which microphone? Who has which interface? That kind of stuff
could be useful.
Even where is it stored? Which storage bay is it in? Or which shelf in the studio garage
is it on? That could be really useful.
Or for you, which house? Is it in the one in Wales? Or is it the one that's bolted to
the earth?
Absolutely. Right now, we're trying to pack up things for the trip to Denver in the RV.
And I realized that the heater I use while I am off grid is in the garage here at the
studio. And I almost left without it. And if I had a system like this, it's like checklist
to the next level for me. And I could totally use that. Check in, check out.
For those kinds of important things.
And you could put serial numbers in there. So if, God forbid, you needed that information
for insurance purposes, it's all in one place.
And of course, it's self-hosted. G-R-O-C-Y. We'll have a link in the show notes. The cool
thing is, if you go to their website, demo.grossy.info, they have a live link there with a demo
account and data in the inventory for you to try before you set it up.
I don't know exactly what the setup process is. I didn't try it yet. But I did find a
guide. And I also have a link in there to integrate it in with Home Assistant. That
might just be the better way to go.
Yeah. HASS.io is making it really easy to run a whole bunch of apps right now. And I'm
kind of seeing how this Home Assistant image can become your one-stop portal to all of
the apps in your network. I talked a couple of episodes ago with Poppy about not needing
a GUI, but having an app store to browse to find stuff sure is helpful for discovery.
You know, I tell you what, it's not just that. Being able to pull all kinds of things into
Home Assistant makes it really useful for other members of the family who maybe don't
know all the URLs or don't remember which app to go to. So for this road trip that I
just mentioned, I set up a tab in Home Assistant. And Alex, if you look, I put a screenshot
in the show notes. I want you to check that out so you can see what I'm talking about.
I'm using the picture elements card in Home Assistant to pull in over a dozen different
webcam feeds of road conditions along our route to Denver. So from Oregon to Wyoming
and Utah, and they're all in there. And so when I'm going down the road, Hadeel only
has one tab she has to check to let me know how the road conditions are. She doesn't have
to go to each site because every state has a different UI with different functionality
and crazy ways of displaying things. So I just threw it all in there. Isn't that neat?
That's fantastic. That is so cool.
It's just an example of how pulling things into Home Assistant, it's handy in multiple
ways because it's convenient, obviously, but it makes it more approachable to others
in the family, too.
I hadn't even considered doing that. I mean, obviously, I don't drive my house down the
road on the regular. But now we just have one tab in Home Assistant. We check and we
get all of the road conditions. And then if there's one that looks particularly bad, she
can tap that and she will get the name of it. And then we could look it up more. We'd
probably go to their website or go to their app. So there's all kinds of neat ways you
can use Home Assistant to pull things in.
The official add-ons are just getting out of control. I mean, you can run a DHCP server
in Home Assistant with one click, DuckDNS, MariaDB, Samba shares. You can do your reverse
proxy through NGINX all through the Home Assistant UI.
I pull all my Wwise cameras in via the RTSP feeds along with Shinobi. I just have cards
in Home Assistant that show them as well, which is just nice as a quick overview.
Then there are the Home Assistant community add-ons, which are done mostly by Frank Nichoff.
Sorry if I said the name wrong. And there's a bunch of stuff in there. Grossi is one of
them. InfluxDB, MQTT, Node-RED, Plex Media Server, Spotify Connect. There's a whole bunch
of stuff that you can now host on your Home Assistant rig just through the web UI with
a couple of clicks. It's really slick. I accidentally blew up my Home Assistant last
night. What? I was taking the opportunity to rebuild it, you know.
Hold on. Hold on. You have backups beyond backups, I thought.
I know. I do have a backup in Google Drive from literally yesterday, but I don't want
to use it. This might sound a bit strange to you, but I quite enjoy nuking and paving
every now and again. I don't do it with my desktop anymore because Linux is too good
these days. I don't use Windows anymore, so I don't need to. I've got to scratch that
itch somehow.
It's a chance to apply all of the new lessons learned, get rid of the cruft, some of the
things you set up but never finished, etc. It's a blank slate. I've been thinking about
doing the same thing, but I'm always worried that I won't get things 100% functional again,
which is actually a good reason to do it because you have to learn those things. Doing it over
and over again, you definitely learn it.
Well, if you put it in your Wiki, Chris, along with your last will and testament.
It's more like, I don't know if I'll get it done before somebody in the family misses
the functionality.
That's very true. So, if you're going to nuke and pave, what are you going to do? Are you
going to run it out of a container or are you going to go the appliance HASIO SD card
image route?
I really don't know. I very much appreciate the simplicity of a very base simple OS I
know how to manage, a Docker container that is just the application, in this case, Home
Assistant, and it's a very simple setup that is reliable. However, every time I run it,
every time you talk about these HASIO add-ons and the community stuff, I'm feeling FOMO.
I feel left out. I'm like, I wish I could try this stuff. And I know there's kind of
a way I could do it, but the fact that I don't even fully understand what that way is, is
just sort of a barrier.
There is. It removes the barrier to entry. It's just a bunch of stuff you click. I don't
know. I haven't really found any downsides to doing it this way other than I have less
control over how the container itself and I guess by association, the other kind of
containers are spun up, but I actually don't mind. It's a dedicated VM on my ESXi box downstairs
and it just does the job. I occasionally have to increase the disk space, but other than
that, it's been bulletproof reliable.
That might be it for me is I'm not necessarily doing this in a VM. I'm doing this on hardware
that is doing many other things. It has many other containers that are doing important
functional work and I don't really have a VM to dedicate or a box dedicated to it.
I don't think you need one. So in the name of science, I believe, Chris, you should try
HASSIO because I think once you do, you'll be like, this is really easy to just do a
whole bunch of stuff.
Okay. Now you're speaking my language.
You could do it the other way and as an experienced admin, I think there's a lot of value
in knowing how the nuts and bolts under the hood are working, but sometimes time is your
enemy and this is less of an enemy.
And if it's something that's popular, I should probably have some experience with it just
to round out my ability to comment on it.
Dang it. The old do it for the show excuse. Why don't we answer a couple of questions?
This is a good episode maybe to take a pause and answer some questions that have rolled
in because Kyle has one sort of along this theme. He says, Hey guys, big fan of the show.
I've learned a lot so far.
Do you have a tutorial or a guide you recommend for setting up a reverse proxy? I'm open to
all options and genetics, traffic, et cetera, but I want a quality guide since I'm exposing
stuff on my network to the internet. Thanks, Kyle. That's such a great point.
I don't run my reverse proxy as an add on in home assistant. You can and it integrates
really nicely and it has let's encrypt automatically generating your SSL certificates and all the
rest of it. I run the Linux server, let's encrypt image on my main media VM, which is
a separate VM from where home assistant runs. And that VM has about 20, 25 containers running
on it. And it uses the local DNS of that Docker daemon to resolve the containers on that host.
So I don't have to open a bunch of ports from those containers to be able to see, be seen
by the reverse proxy. Now that sounds great until you start trying to run services that
are no longer on that box like home assistant. And I ran into an issue last night with web
sockets. So I had the reverse proxy configuration working just fine. And then I loaded up node red,
which is one of the add ons. You click the button, you install it and it would load,
but then the actual, I don't know what you call it, I guess the sockets underneath the
web sockets on the page wouldn't connect. And I thought to myself, hmm, how do I isolate this
issue? Because, you know, being a troubleshooting sort of chap, I like to understand where the
problem is. And you think to yourself, right, is it a reverse proxy? Is it node red? Is it home
assistant? And you can isolate these things by going to the IP address of the server instead of
the reverse proxy URL. So in my case, that was 192.168.whatever. And it worked perfectly. So I'm
like, okay, cool. I now know it's a reverse proxy. Didn't help me find the answer, but I knew what
the problem was. And after maybe two, three, maybe more hours, I eventually discovered that web
sockets were required in both blocks, not just the API web socket section, but also the root of the
web URL, added two lines of config, restarted Let's Encrypt, and boom, we were off to the races.
So I put the full details in a blog post over on my blog, and hopefully that saves somebody else
some pain. Now, if you are looking to do a reverse proxy, like I've done on my main media VM, I
mentioned I was running the Linux server Let's Encrypt NGINX reverse proxy container. And I've
been running that for maybe for two, three years at this point. Works great, really reliable.
There's a bunch of pre-baked NGINX configuration files in a Git repo that the Linux server team
maintain. And there is a fantastic blog post written by Aptalka, who's the guy that put most
of the work into that container. It's basically an NGINX starter guide. So if you're trying to
figure out how do I expose my services securely to the internet without opening a whole bunch
of ports in my firewall, this guide is the one that you want. It's from April 2019, but it's
still as relevant today as it was then. Very nice. Thank you. We'll make sure to put links to that at
selfhosted.show slash 15. So before we roll off of Home Assistant completely,
I want to throw a couple of problems I've had at you recently and also by extension the audience
and just get people's take on this. I have a problem in Home Assistant where my automations
from time to time just crap out. The one where it really matters is I have temperature sensors
that are monitoring the temperature consistently. And when the temperature gets above, say 73
degrees Fahrenheit, the heaters cut off. Well, sometimes that automation just stops working.
And so I'll wake up in the middle of the night and it's like 85, 90 degrees in my bedroom and
we're roasting because the automation failed. I don't know what that is. And then recently,
my wife's phone and my phone using the Home Assistant app for iOS stopped connecting to
our Home Assistant instance. On the same phone, you can go to the browser and bring up the Home
Assistant UI in the browser, but you can't connect via the apps. You get you get some sort of API error.
And these weird little issues, I wonder, are they related to being on a platform like ARM,
like a Raspberry Pi 4? Is it because it's a Raspberry Pi 4 Home Assistant server and
I don't know, maybe there was disk I.O. contention and something failed and it just breaks?
Or would this be striking me if I was on a Core i7 system with plenty of CPUs and
32, 64 gigs of RAM? I don't know what's going on here. I don't know if it's something that
I could fix with hardware, but doing OS updates, keeping Home Assistant fully up to date, keeping
the app on the phone up to date, none of that has fixed it. The only thing that gets the automations
working properly again is to restart Home Assistant or reboot the entire Raspberry Pi, whichever I
choose, then my automations work. I don't remember what my issue was, but it was something along the
lines of an automation not working. And I just set up an automation, funnily enough, to restart
the container every day. I didn't do it in Home Assistant, though. I wrote a cron script that did
it. But I've run into that issue as well, where you just have to restart the container for what
seems like no good reason. And 4 a.m. every day, bang, restarted, couldn't tell the difference.
So I was considering doing that, but I thought maybe that was just sort of the lazy hack way out.
Well, it is. It's not really fixing the problem. It's fixing the symptom, isn't it?
I could accept that it's just software in development and that this is a problem that just
is internal to Home Assistant. But I think what plagues me is this this nagging question that I
always come to. You hear me touch on it from time to time here on the show. Is it because I'm on a
Raspberry Pi? Should I have done this on a proper x86 system? And I think maybe that's my bias,
because in my world, a server is an x86 box, which is probably silly and outdated.
The only thing I would say against the Pi is the SD card. It's the SD card. Yeah.
Yeah. I don't really like the fact that a production and I say air quotes production
machine is running off an SD card that just doesn't. But then again, my 3D printer has been
running OctoPrint for the last year plus off an SD card. Absolutely fine. Yeah. But I don't see
that as a critical piece of infrastructure like Home Assistant is in my house. I mean,
if my 3D printer doesn't work, oh, well, if my home automation stuff stops working,
that could be more frustrating. Yes, it is. And especially the more you end up relying on it.
And I can hear a lot of people writing in right now. I can hear their keyboards,
their mechanical keyboards, clacking, telling me to get xyz arm box and that it's so much better
than the Raspberry Pi. But the truth of the matter is, I think if I was going to jump off of a Raspberry
Pi 4, I think I would jump to one of the x86 boxes that Wendell mentioned last week.
It just seems like a better way to go. I just feel like I want to ride this thing out a little
bit longer. So I'm hoping somebody can tell me that they've had the same problem with
automations. But it sounds like you kind of are confirming it. So maybe this is not Pi specific
and that I should just buckle down and accept it, cron job a reboot. I wish I could remember what it
was, but I haven't had the issue since I switched to Hasio. So maybe that's more motivation for you
to try it out. I don't know. Well, we got another bit of feedback to get to. This one comes in from
Glenn and he's telling us about Chenmon. Chenmon is a generator monitor. It's a little self hosted
program that operates on a Raspberry Pi and it will relay the status of your generator.
He says he uses it on his little 22 kilowatt generator across the water from where I'm at
over in Port Orchard, which is a gorgeous area. He says it hosts a web page with the current status.
It'll send an email or text message on changes. And you'll love this, Alex. It also has MQTT
integration. Boom. If I had a bell, I would ding it right now. I know. We need like an MQTT
like sound effect. He likes the data, especially likes to know when the power goes out. He says
it's not really applicable to an RV, but it's still pretty cool. And it's an actively maintained
Python project. And we'll have a link in the show notes. It doesn't support all generators,
obviously, but it does support a fair amount. I have an own in generator that does not have one
of these boards in it that gives you any information. But you got to wonder if there's
some way you could add one. That'd be so cool. Now that I know this is data that is capturable,
now I want it. Glenn is a man of about data, just like we are. Look at this.
He also has an open source app called Salt Level. This is so great. Maybe it's a little
more limited for people out there, but it monitors my water softener salt level.
How fun is that? And he wrote that and that's a Python project and he's definitely scratching
his own itch there. You can hear my dad right now saying, how hard is it to lift the lid of the thing
and look inside the thing and put more salt in the thing? I'm like, that's not the point.
See, my dad would love something like this because getting this just right was a point
of pride for my dad growing up and he didn't have the tools we have today. And then on top of that,
he had a saltwater tank where he had built a whole bunch of monitoring around it, but it was
really old school style and none of it generated alerts. So my dad would be like, this is great,
but has no need for it now. He says he's enjoyed the podcast and has gotten into Home Assistant
because we've been talking about it, which is really cool to hear. I hope he loves it. He says
he recommends anybody out there with a generator, go check out Genmon, see if it'll work for them.
I want to check it out. I want my generator to do it now.
I wonder if you could hook up some current sensors or something just to the outputs of
the generator. And I mean, this was the reason I included the feedback was because I know that you
have such a reliance on them. They're not something that are a tall part of my life, but
power is a constant concern for you. I'm always looking for some way to get power. I can't wait
for the summer. How is that solar thing working out? Give us a quick solar update.
Well, really, you know, here in the Pacific Northwest in the winter, it's not super solar.
It's not super sunny. But for one glorious day, really? Yeah, I know, right? Surprise, surprise.
I do have the ability, although I don't think I can do it when I'm not on the network,
but I have the ability to pull in information from the solar charge controller onto my phone.
And one glorious day, we generated a surprising amount of power where the RV ran off solar for
the entire day. But otherwise, it's just been little bits here and there. I'm looking at it,
though, and I'm thinking in that day where we had really glorious sunshine, we definitely
had spec'd it right. We had run the batteries down overnight using lights and using the furnace to
about 82 percent or something like that. And then when the sun came out, by midday,
we were back up at 100 percent and we were running completely off solar for one glorious day.
By midday?
Oh, yeah. Yeah.
So what, like three or four hours of sunlight? That's pretty amazing.
It's probably a little more than that. But yeah, it was great. It was great. I got home and I
thought, oh, I better start the generator. And I looked at the batteries and it was
completely charged.
I want to put some solar on the roof of my house hearing things like that.
I've always dreamed, too, about setting up solar on a studio and having all of the gear
in the studio powered by solar or a battery bank, obviously.
How great would it be to mine Bitcoin literally for free?
That would be fantastic. Or Doge, you know, whatever it might be. Or run your media server
and your self-hosted servers off of some sort of green energy, whatever it might be.
Dogecoin. I can't believe you went there. You'll say 2000 and late.
I know. Well, you know, the classics never die, Alex. The classics.
That one should.
Yeah, it should. But really, I mean, I hope one day in the future to have like a server
shack somewhere or something that I've set up that is powering a couple of home server
systems like a plex box and some storage that runs off of solar. I think that'd be very cool.
We should set up our own colo data center that is just a solar powered self-hosting
data center only.
So we got one more email to get to. But before we do that, maybe we should do an update on
the self-hosted Wiki. It's been a couple of episodes since we talked about that.
Yeah, it has. Now, we had a call with the sort of kind of air quotes core maintainers
of the Wiki a couple of weeks ago and talked about some of the tech decisions that we're
going to use. And right now we're looking at MKDocs. We're going to press ahead with
that as the primary technology stack, as it were, with a view towards eventually moving
towards Hugo once we get the search and the theme where we want it. But the primary thing
we're looking for right now is content. We need people to go and submit pull requests.
It can be a really short how-to guide. You know, here's how I flashed Tasmota on this
particular thing. Or this is what I use to monitor my plex media server.
Or anything you've heard us mention on the show that you have an idea of how to do,
write up a guide and then link it to us on the contact form.
Yeah. And we would like things to be in markdown so that they're easily transposable between
MKDocs and Hugo when the time comes. But if you open a pull request, we will give you
feedback if we need some changes. But more than likely, it'll just be stylistic stuff,
the actual content itself, unless it's horrible. Fair enough. Unless it's horrible.
Well, I mean, if it's, I bought this thing and flashed something onto it,
and you should do it too, we might not accept that pull request.
We do incidentally need somebody to write a guide on how to do a pull request.
There are lots of GitHub guides on how to do pull requests. But what you've got to remember
is a lot of people in this community are coming to self-hosting stuff, not as Linux admins,
but because they have bought a Synology or built an Unraid box and they're just learning
and or home assistant users and they're learning Linux and they're learning this stuff for the
first time. And they may not be familiar with stuff that as part of my day job, pull requests is
something I do every day. And whilst I could write a guide, I would love a beginner to write
a guide because the beginner's eyes are always going to be a lot wider than mine. And I think
ultimately that's going to produce better content for everybody. Great point. That is something we
should try to keep in mind and make this as accessible to as many people as possible.
All right, sir. I know we've got one more email into the show today. Do you want to get to it?
Yeah. You're a Windows guy, right? At least for the last week.
Yeah. So Daniel Braun writes in and he says, Hey guys, I've been planning to move my company off
of Windows Server. Hooray. Now, the problem is that I'm in a remote area and to get support out
here is a bit difficult, which is the reason I went with Windows in the first place. I know my
way around Linux, but I don't really have the time to manage the server. That's a tricky question.
Yeah. What would be the distro and application you would recommend for Active Directory,
file sharing and exchange? Thanks, PS. I really enjoy the show. Keep it up.
Boy, I don't know if Daniel's going to want to hear this,
but I think maybe he should consider sticking with Windows.
Yeah, you can't just build a box and let it rot. You do have to do some stuff to it every now and
again. Yeah. And if the core functionality you want from that box is Active Directory,
I mean, you could definitely do it with Samba and LDAP. Absolutely. I have done it.
Yeah. Or free IPA is another one and Red Hat seller product IDM that does it if you want to
use that. But yes, if you've already got Windows and you've already got Active Directory set up,
my first inclination would probably be even as a Linux guy would be to stick with what you've got.
Yeah. I think the real cincher is that not only does he want Active Directory,
but he wants exchange-like functionality. And again, this is reproducible. Things like
Zimbra, for example, could be deployed on Linux. It would search back to your free IPA LDAP
directory, which could be sitting behind Samba. And you could achieve Active Directory file
sharing and exchange-like functionality with something like Ubuntu LTS, free IPA and a VM,
and Zimbra and a VM. You could absolutely do this. I don't really see it. I would probably
just stick with Windows. Keep in mind, too, I just got done with the WSL Comp, the Windows
subsystem for Linux conference. And something that was made clear to me is that this is coming
to Windows Server as well. And so, certain functionality like Ansible management,
Kubernetes support, and even SSH are just going to be table stakes for Windows Server soon.
And it's going to be simpler and easier for Linux guys and gals to manage a Windows Server.
And I wish I could tell you, Daniel, this is the time to do it because I made a living for a long
time going in as a contractor and migrating people's Windows servers to Linux. But I don't
think this is the one, sir. He could look at how he has it set up, perhaps make it more manageable
by having the primary systems in a VM and have the base system be the virtualizer where you can
do snapshots and things like that. So, there's ways you could go about this. And that base system
could be a CentOS or Ubuntu LTS machine. Don't forget, though, every time you add a layer,
you also add complexity. So, unless you are familiar with that kind of stuff, just be careful.
And I think because you've written the phrase, I'm planning to move my company. I don't know
whether it's a small business or whether it's a big one. I'm assuming it's sort of small to
medium size. I'm assuming that it's probably you that's in charge. So, just remember that
when you get the phone call at 2am that something's on fire, you don't want to have to
wade through nine layers of virtualization and abstraction to fix what would be a simple problem
if you were just running on that host bare metal, so to speak. And honestly, it might just be worth
waiting a little while. As crazy as it sounds, there are entire organizations now that operate
without something like Active Directory. And I know that sounds nuts, but it's becoming the
new normal. And hosted services, or ones you can host yourself, are a big part of that. And
there's a shift happening in the industry. And if you just waited a couple of years, even,
you'd probably have a much clearer signal in which direction that's going.
Yeah, that's a great point. The DevOps movement is really bridging that gap,
and a lot of developers now are deploying their own authentication services that mean that
single sign-on is a service that runs on a Kubernetes cluster somewhere. And
you can do a bunch of interesting stuff there. I don't find it very interesting, but some people
do. Some of you guys do, yeah, and they're out there. If you want to get your question into the
show, selfhost.show.com or on Twitter or on the Telegram in our Jupiter Broadcasting Telegram
channel, hashtag ask SSH, and then put your question in there. We'll try to keep an eye out
for those and incorporate them in future episodes. We have a lot of questions that come in. So from
time to time, we try to incorporate them in. Absolutely. And thank you very much to everybody
that wrote in. And don't forget about Alex's Reverse Proxy Setup Guide at blog.ktz.me.
And check out my site, chrislass.com, where I have a bunch of cool stuff there like the
Chris Lass Cast and links to other things I'm doing these days. And last but not least,
check out the show on Twitter at selfhostedshow. Stay safe, wash your hands. And that was
self-hosted episode 15.